<center>A linear regression approach to hotel rating</center>

A dataset containing 515,000 customer reviews of 1493 hotels across Europe was scraped from Booking.com and made available by Jiashen Liu. Leveraging this dataset, we took the linear regression approach to model and interpret the relationship between user sentiment and rating score.

As expected, the final model illustrates that the average number of words in the positive reviews have a positive relationship with the response variable while the average number of words in the negative review negatively affect the response variable. One interesting finding is that the number of valid scores without review seems to have a positive influence on hotel rating: hotel guests with bad experiences tend to give low rating and leave wordy complaint to express dissatisfaction; on the other hand, a fair amount of people with moderate to strong satisfaction during their stay would likely to give decent scores without leaving a praise in the comment.

In reality, when booking hotels, besides the location and other considerations, we should value the review scores as well as the amount of reviews. The former is a reflection of the quality of hotels while the latter indicates how reliable the ratings are. Scores are most trustworthy if supported by large number of reviews. This is also in agreement with outlier removal. It turns out that the three identified and removed outliers based on various testing techniques are hotels with much fewer total number of reviews compared to the rest of the dataset. Those could be new hotels and their scores are not stable yet. As for improvement of the model, those three observations should be added back to the dataset after a period of time if the updated data are available from Booking.com in the future.
